Rockman Industries is an industry leader in alloy wheels, we leverage years of expertise in manufacturing aluminum alloy wheels through Low-Pressure Die Casting and Gravity Die Casting, for superior end products. Two-wheeler and four-wheeler wheels manufactured and assembled in our facilities are durable and compliant with global standards. 
Rockman Industries was established in the year 1960. The organization is an industry leader in two-wheeler and four-wheeler alloy wheels. Rockman has forayed into Carbon Composites through the acquisition of a British-Indian enterprise. Rockman Industries has been into Aluminium Die Casting for the last two decades Processing more than 12 types of alloys. Rockman Industries offers you the facility of high-pressure die casting using different metals and the resultant products maintain the quality standards set. In the automotive industry, alloy wheels are wheels that are made from an alloy of aluminum or magnesium. 
Alloys are mixtures of metal and other elements. They generally provide greater strength over pure metals, which are usually much softer and more ductile. Most alloy wheels are manufactured using casting, but some are forged. Forged wheels are usually lighter, stronger, but much more expensive than cast wheels. There are two types of forged wheels: one piece and modular. Modular forged wheels may feature a two- or three-piece design. Alloy wheels are prone to galvanic corrosion, which can cause the tires to leak air if appropriate preventive measures are not taken. Also, alloy wheels are more difficult to repair than steel wheels when bent, but their higher price usually makes repairs cheaper than replacement. This process uses a die arranged in a large machine that has the high closing force to clamp the die closed. The molten magnesium is poured into a filler tube called a shot sleeve. A piston pushes the metal into the die with high speed and pressure, the magnesium solidifies and the die is opened and the wheel is released. Wheels produced by this method can offer reductions in price and improvements in corrosion resistance but they are less ductile and of lower strength due to the nature of high pressure die casting. 
Roller chain or bush roller chain is the type of chain drive most commonly used for transmission of mechanical power on many kinds of domestic, industrial, and agricultural machinery, including conveyors, wire- and tube drawing machines, printing presses, cars, motorcycles, and bicycles. 
The aluminum alloy wheel usually has better heat conductivity, anti-corrosive properties and is much lighter than the steel wheel making it the best option for passenger vehicles. Aluminum alloy wheels are manufactured using the casting and forging process. Alloy wheels and aluminum alloy wheels are all different names of the same entities. Aluminum and alloy wheels are manufactured using casting, and some are forged. ... Aluminum alloy and alloy wheels are not easy to repair, but repair is cheaper than replacement. Forged aluminum wheels are stronger but lighter than alloy wheels. Aluminum and alloy wheels are manufactured for street-going cars and light trucks.
1. Aluminum and alloy wheels are different names of the same entities.
2. Alloy wheels are lightweight and corrosion resistant.
3. Aluminum and alloy wheels are also used for cosmetic purposes, and for racing cars
4. Aluminum and alloy wheels are stronger and can be painted or left as they are.
5. Some of the types of aluminum or alloy wheels, such as forged aluminum and carbon fiber wheels, are extremely expensive.
Theoretically, by using an alloy wheel your mileage, performance and handling will be better as alloys are lighter than stock steel rims. Alloy wheels are lighter and allow better handling. In casting, wheels are made by using a mold. The mold is filled with molten metal; as the metal cools, the wheel becomes strong and rigid. Various types of casting processes result in wheels with different properties. Gravity casting and low-pressure casting are common types of casting. The major casting processes for wheels are: Low-pressure die casting (mainly) Gravity permanent mold casting (less used) Squeeze-casting process (marginally used) 
Properties of Aluminium Alloys. 
Light.
Strong.
High strength-to-weight ratio.
Resilient.
Ductile at low temperatures.
Corrosion-resistant.
Non-toxic.
Heat conducting.
When processed using best practice methods, low pressure die casting wheels can offer improvements in ductility over magnesium wheels and any cast aluminum wheels, they remain less ductile than forged magnesium.
